next up previous contents
Next: Implicit knowledge Up: Modal epistemic logic Previous: Epistemic logic
and agent   Contents


The problem of logical omniscience

The treatment of epistemic logic as a branch of modal logic brings some
advantages. However, there is a high price to pay. The most important objection
to the modal approach is that it makes unrealistic assumptions about the
reasoning power of the agents. The problem is known as the ``logical
omniscience problem'' (LOP) and occurs in several forms. In its strongest form
the problem can be stated as follows:


\begin{lemma}\par Let $\Lambda$\ be any normal modal logic containing \textbf
{K......ha$, where $K_i(\Gamma)=_{def}\{K_i\gamma: \gamma\in \Gamma\}$.\par\end
{lemma}

That is, whenever an agent knows all of the formulae in a set $\Gamma$ and $\
alpha$ follows logically from $\Gamma$, then the agent also knows $\alpha$. In
particular, the agent knows all theorems (taking $\Gamma$ in lemma 9 to be the
empty set), and he knows all logical consequences of a sentence that he knows
(taking $\Gamma$ to consist of a single sentence.)

Besides this strong form there are other, generally weaker forms of logical
omniscience. The following are listed in [FHMV95]:

  * Knowledge of valid formulae: agent $i$ knows all logical truths (rule (NEC)
    ).
  * Closure under logical implication: if agent $i$ knows $\alpha$ and if $\
    alpha$ logically implies $\beta$ (i.e., $\alpha \to \beta$ is valid), then
    agent $i$ knows $\beta$ (rule (MON)).
  * Closure under logical equivalence: if agent $i$ knows $\alpha$ and if $\
    alpha$ and $\beta$ are logically equivalent (i.e., $\alpha \leftrightarrow
    \beta$ is valid), then agent $i$ knows $\beta$ (rule (CGR)).
  * Closure under material implication: if agent $i$ knows $\alpha$ and if
    agent $i$ knows $\alpha \to \beta$ then agent $i$ knows $\beta$ (axiom (K)
    ).
  * Closure under conjunction: if agent $i$ knows $\alpha$ and if agent $i$
    knows $\beta$ then agent $i$ knows $\alpha\land\beta$ (axiom (C)).

The list of questionable properties could be extended to include any other
instance of the rule (RK$_n$) (from $\avec{\alpha}{\land}{n}\to \beta$ to infer
$\avec{K_i\alpha}{\land}{n}\to K_i\beta$.) Moreover, the axiom schemata (D),
(4) and (5) can also be shown to be too strong for realistic agents. In
particular, under certain circumstances axiom (5) suggests that agents can even
decide undecidable problems ([BS92], [SW94])! In general, there seems to be no
genuine epistemic principle that may claim universal validity^2.3.

If epistemic logic is to be interpreted as describing actual knowledge of
realistic (though idealized) agents, then the discussed closure properties
require agents to be very powerful reasoners whose computational capacities
cannot be achieved by real (human or artificial) agents, who are simply not
logically omniscient. Logical omniscience poses a problem because it
contradicts the fact that agents are limited in their reasoning powers. They
are inherently resource-bounded and therefore cannot handle an unlimited amount
of information. Agents may establish immediately certain logical truths or
simple consequences of what they consciously assented to. However, there are
highly remote dispositional states which could only be established by complex,
time-consuming reasoning. The modal framework cannot distinguish between a
sentence that an agent consciously assented to and a piece of potential
knowledge which could never be made actual by the agent and is therefore not
suited to model resource-bounded reasoning^2.4.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subsections

  * Implicit knowledge

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
next up previous contents
Next: Implicit knowledge Up: Modal epistemic logic Previous: Epistemic logic
and agent   Contents
2001-04-05
