Location: http://users.numericable.lu/martincaminada/aastm.html                                                                           
Advanced Argumentation Services for Trust Management

Overview:
The overall aim of AASTM is to enhance today's generation of argumentation formalisms and implementations in order to become suitable for
a wider variety of real-life applications, such as reasoning about trust. This requires a unified theory that integrates the various
forms of argumentation related functionality, as well as efficient proof procedures and sound and scalable software components. The
specific application of the argumentation theory to the field of trust management is the task of a PhD student who is to be employed to
work on the project.

Objectives:
AASTM is focused on knowledge-based services for the Information Society, based on semantically rich logic formalisms called
Argumentation Systems [Dung 1995, Vreeswijk 1997]. The overall aim of AASTM is to enhance today's generation of argumentation formalisms
and implementations in order to become suitable for a wider variety of real-life applications, such as trust management. The objectives
of AASTM are:

 1. to provide formal foundations for an advanced argumentation model for trust management by bringing functionality like defeasible
    priorities [Prakken & Sartor 1997], Socratic-style arguments [Caminada 2004] and hierarchical arguments [Modgil 2006] under a unified
    formal umbrella.
 2. to investigate practical techniques to mechanise argumentation in the formal model.
 3. to evaluate the model and techniques through a small-scale experimental prototype in the domain of trust management.
 4. the design and implementation of a set of software components which can be used in trust management.

Actions and means involved:
Over the last ten years, interest in argumentation has expanded dramatically, driven in part by theoretical advances but also by
successful demonstrations of a wide range of practical applications. AASTM builds on a common framework recently developed in the
European Sixth Framework IST project ASPIC (2003-2006), which establishes on the one hand a formal foundation to support the creation,
deployment and validation of practical argumentation systems, and on the other hand a suite of software components for integrating these
components with knowledge (e.g. semantic web) resources and legacy systems.

Though argumentation technology is currently being applied in fields as medical advising systems [Fox & Das 2000] and machine learning
[Mozina et al 2005], present implementations have a limited functionality. AASTM therefore develops argumentation services using advanced
approaches like defeasible priorities [Prakken & Sartor 1997], Socratic-style arguments [Caminada 2004] and hierarchical arguments
[Modgil 2006], which have thus far not been formalized to such an extent that led to software components could be developed and
implemented. A research assistant and an assistant are employed for the following three actions:

 1. Basic research. The research assistant develops a conceptual and formal framework and analysis that takes the three advanced
    approaches into account.
 2. Innovative trust applications. The research assistant together with the assistant apply the new theory to the domain of trust
    management, requiring reasoning performed using a set of rules of thumb, that is elicited from human experts, or other forms of
    common sense reasoning. It considers in particular rules of thumb as used in legal practice.
 3. Sound and scalable software. The research assistant develops a software implementation of argumentation technology, based on the
    previous two points. Prototypes are expected to be limited to systems which assume human supervision.

AASTM contributes technology for projects on security and trust, such as TRIAS and SecanLab at the University of Luxembourg.

Structuration of the project:
Essentially, AASTM is organized around the interaction among the research assistant and the assistant, in which the research assistant is
developing the formal model, and the assistant is developing the trust application and the implementation. Their interaction is arranged
via the trust application, which:

 1. generates the requirements for the formal model
 2. is used to evaluate the formal model

The project leader has several years of experience with managing projects in multi-agent systems and enterprise architecture with this
organization, and will see to it that it remains as effective as in previous projects.

Besides, the organization of the project is structured along three work packages following the three actions of the project. The level of
accomplishment of the objectives will be measured and assessed during the projectâ€™s lifetime, by providing a direct correspondence with
the Work packages structure.

Action 1. Basic research.
Task 1.1 Advanced semantics of argumentation frameworks, using semantics of abstract argumentation frameworks [Dung 1995, Baroni et al
2005, Coste-Marquis et al 2005], using the connection between logic programming and argumentation [Dung 1995, Caminada 2006a]
Task 1.2 Conceptual analysis of argumentation forms and methodology, extending abstract argumentation frameworks [Amgoud & Cayrol 2002,
Bench-Capon 2003].

Action 2. Application to trust management.
Task 2.1. Building on results in the the TRIAS project, the argumentation theory is used to argue about the reliability of sources.
Task 2.2. Trustworthiness based on the arguments used in dialogue, a new application domain thus far not studied in the literature.

Action 3. Software development.
Task 3.1. The suitability of particular forms of formal arguments (like trees [Vreeswijk 1997, ASPIC 2005], lists [Prakken & Sartor 1997]
and sets [Besnard & Hunter 2001] for trust management is analyzed, and proof procedures and software implementations of the argumentation
theory are developed.
Task 3.2. Scientific documentation and dissemination material.

Present + contextual situation:
From an everyday point of view arguments are "reasons to believe and reasons to act". Until recently the idea of "argumentation", the
process of creating arguments for and against competing claims, was a subject primarily of interest to philosophers and lawyers. In
recent years, however, there has been an enormous growth of interest in the subject from formal and technical perspectives in Computer
Science and Artificial Intelligence, and wide use of argumentation technologies in practical applications. The benefits of argumentation
are a form of logic that is less "brittle" than classical logic while still being highly expressive and formally sound.

In computer science and artificial intelligence, argumentation is viewed as a mechanical procedure for interpreting events, organising
and presenting documents and making decisions about actions. From a theoretical perspective, argumentation offers a novel framework
casting new light on classical forms of reasoning (including logical deduction, induction, abduction and plausible reasoning),
communication explanations of advice, supporting discussion and negotiation in computer-supported cooperative work) and learning. From a
human-computer interaction point of view argumentation is a versatile technique that facilitates natural system behaviour and is more
easily understood by human users and operators. Generally speaking, argumentation capabilities have the potential to add value to any
computer-assisted system that provides information and advice to human users or other agents.

The European Sixth Framework IST project ASPIC (2003-2006) has developed a common framework recently developed. The services that have
emerged as core functions of the argumentation paradigm include reasoning, decision-making, learning and communication. ASPIC establishes
a formal foundation to support the creation, deployment and validation of practical argumentation systems ASPIC has developed a suite of
software components based on this framework and a development platform for integrating these components with knowledge (e.g. semantic
web) resources and legacy systems.

In ASPIC, the notion of autonomy is used to denote the requirement that the software must have some ability to decide for itself which
goals it should adopt and how these goals should be achieved. The methodology of the project uses argumentation in order to permit agents
to treat the reasons that justify alternative goals and actions (arguments for and against) as first-class objects that can be explicitly
analysed, questioned and rebutted.

Argumentation provides a flexible way of dealing with competing hypotheses in such circumstances, accommodating a wide range of
conventional uncertain reasoning methods as well as more advanced inference techniques like defeasible and non-monotonic reasoning and
paralogical systems (systems that are tolerant of inconsistency and contradiction). In non-monotonic and uncertain reasoning,
argumentation systems have been used to define inference systems for existing non-monotonic logics or to define a non-standard (most
often non-monotonic) consequence relation for a particular logic based on a notion of argument. Although these works differ in technical
detail and the underlying formal languages they use all of them combine arguments in some way, by aggregation of sets of arguments or
undercutting and defeat among arguments, to arrive at cases for competing claims or propositions which can be directly compared. This is
a flexible and natural way for agents to reason, make decisions, and select or modify plans in a complex and changing world.

Complex technical systems and services increasingly require several autonomous agents that have to collaborate and communicate in order
to achieve required objectives, because of the inherent interdependencies and constraints that exist between their goals and tasks.
Increasingly they depend upon complex conversations concerned with negotiation or persuasion where agents have different capabilities and
viewpoints. Such dialogues have at their heart an exchange of proposals, claims or offers. What distinguishes argumentation-based
discussions from other approaches is that proposals can be supported by the reasons that justify (or oppose) them, roughly equating to
explanations for why a proposal or counter-proposal was made. This permits greater flexibility than in other decision-making and
communication schemes since, for instance, it makes it possible to persuade agents to change their view of a claim by identifying
information or knowledge that is not being considered, or by introducing a new relevant factor in the middle of a negotiation or to
resolve an impasse.

Description of the project:
AASTM aims to contribute to both the theoretical state of the art of formal argumentation, as well as to the available software
implementations. The latter is definitely not a trivial task, as it involves issues of computability, complexity and efficiency in a
broad sense.

As for the theoretical part, AASTM aims to make contributions in "Dung-base" as well as in "Dung-instantiated" (see the General Technical
Description). As for Dung-base, Caminada has recently introduced the concept of semi-stable semantics [Caminada 2006c], which is a
particularly promising alternative for domains where traditionally stable semantics has been used. However, current proof procedures for
semi-stable semantics are very limited and the issue of computational complexity has barely been touched. AAS aims to deal with these
issues in order to come up with an efficient software implementation.

As for "Dung-instantiated", we aim to study which kinds of instantiated arguments are best suited for particular domains. Prakken, for
instance, has argued that arguments composed of strict and defeasible rules are best suited for the legal domain. Caminada, in his PhD
thesis [Caminada 2004] has discussed the difference between epistemical and constitutive reasoning and its consequences for the validity
of default contraposition. AAS aims to put these considerations in a broader perspective and deal with the often neglected issue of which
formalisms should be applied under which particular circumstances and for which domains.

In the TRIAS project at the University of Luxembourg, the problem of a knowledge seeking agent to evaluate the reliability of knowledge
sources and knowledge items is studied, which is necessary to plan its search, to handle fusion, in particular conflicts, and to
guarantee the quality of its informational output. The basic question is which degree of belief and/or which judgments the agent should
attach to evidence it receives from a particular source. In a nutshell, this depends on two factors. First, on its prior belief about the
subject matter, e.g. how plausible it considers certain assumptions. Secondly, on its assessment of the reliability of the knowledge
provider in the given situation, i.e. on how much the agent trusts the source of specific information. To determine the appropriate
degree of trust, the agent has to explore its partial know-ledge about the web of science and its constituents, do some reasoning, and
possibly even initiate some additional probing or background checks. In the AASTM project, we use this problem to define the first set of
requirements and evaluation of the developed argumentation techniques.

Thereafter, we study a new question in trust management. Assuming sources are able to argue themselves, and we observe this
argumentation, what can we deduce from the trustworthiness of the source? For example, when a source would provide conflicting
information, then we would quickly deduce that the source is unreliable. Other reasons to distrust a source if there is a bias towards
particular outcomes. For example, if we consider information sources, the provided information may be colored by political or ideological
ideas. In general such biases are not easily detected, but when advanced systems can be asked or forced to give an argumentation for
their delivered services, such evaluation becomes within reach. As far as we know, such studies in trust management have not been
described in the literature yet.

Finally, we develop software which can be used in the platform developed in the ASPIC project, using state of the art service technology.

Cost/benefit ratio:
Argumentation is a relatively new paradigm for semantically rich logic systems. It builds on important European strengths, notably in
mathematical logic and computational logic, and promises to resolve a number of important limitations on logic-based technologies.
Argumentation makes use of the concepts of computational logic (e.g. logic programming, logic databases, constraint logics, description
logics) but provides a natural way of introducing knowledge of the world, where "knowledge" is frequently inconsistent, subjective and
relativistic. Classical logics are intolerant of these realities and argumentation theory provides a powerful but essentially
conservative way of extending classical logics to make them more flexible and robust, through greater tolerance of uncertainty (e.g. by
assessing collections arguments for propositions rather than "proofs") and ambiguity (by allowing internally consistent arguments to be
constructed from mutually inconsistent knowledge resources and resolving the inconsistency through negotiation). Argumentation
technologies therefore have the potential to significantly extend the range of application of logic-based technologies for both research
and practical use.

By embodying these research results in a set of standard software components, and providing a development platform for integrating the
components with other software and resources such as web resources, we believe that AAS has the capability to catalyse commercial and
industrial exploitation of argumentation techniques. By making these components available in open source form this will facilitate
development of argumentation based technologies and products. Implementation of argumentation services or argumentation based agent
technology in software applications could significantly strengthen the software industry and provide a valuable technological advantage.

Argumentation research is also likely to have significant theoretical impact. For example, some argumentation systems have been developed
as "rational" reasoning and decision-making systems and promise to resolve long-standing problems of pure quantitative approaches
(notably probability and statistical decision-theory) and pure logic-based approaches (e.g. predicate logic, non-monotonic logics).

A particularly prominent beneficiary will be the software agents' community. An increasing number of software applications is being
conceived, designed, and implemented using the concept of autonomous agents, ranging from email filtering, through electronic commerce,
to large medical, regulatory and industrial applications. Argumentation technology provides important new capabilities for agent systems
through new ways of exploiting knowledge in practical reasoning, more flexible decision-making from better management of uncertainty,
more sophisticated negotiation capabilities between agents which need to share responsibility for complex tasks, and integration of
machine-learning techniques into autonomous systems, which currently have very limited abilities in this respect.

The cost-benefit ration of this project is very good, since the costs are limited to costs for attracting personnel, and the expected
scientific output in number of scientific papers is very high. Costs are restricted to costs for personnel. We do no expect there to be a
need for expensive software development environments (much argumentation software has been written in freely available platforms such as
Ruby and Perl) and having most of the programming done by the proposed PhD student. Moreover, the project will develop a substantial
expertise in formal and computational argumentation. The proposed research assistant has been one of the most active participants within
the ASPIC project. The ASPIC project has led to many new insights in the field of formal argumentation. Some of these insights have not
yet been completely elaborated on. We expect there to be an opportunity for AAS to fill in these gaps. In this way, AAS could with
relatively little resources obtain quite interesting results. Based on previous experiences, it is expected that AAS will result in a
significant number of high-level publications. The proposed research assistant as well as the project leader have much relevant
experience in the field of formal argumentation, as well as an excellent international network in the field of research.

General technical description:
The approach of formal argumentation emerged in the 1990s [Vreeswijk 1993, Dung 1995, Pollock 1992+1995, Simari & Loui 1992] as a
response on developments regarding defeasible logic in the 1980s (like [Reiter 1980, McCarthy 1986]) The unique approach of argumentation
for defeasible reasoning is that instead of a monlithic approach for defeasible entailment as is observed in the field of traditional
nonmonotonic logics (such as default logic or autoepistemic logic), entailment under the argumentation approach is defined in a modular
and quite intuitive way. Based on the information in a knowledge base, arguments are constructed. It is then examined how these arguments
interact and attach each other. Based on the total picture of the set of arguments and the defeat relation between these arguments it is
then determined, using a particular argument-based semantics [Dung 1995, Baroni & Giacomin 2006, Coste-Marquis et al 2005, Caminada
2006c] what the different extensions of arguments are. Based on these extensions, one then obtains the conclusions that can be seen as
justified, using a sceptical or credulous approach [Baroni & Giacomin 2006].

Although some approaches to formal argumentation already existed in the early 1990s [Simari & Loui 1992, Vreeswijk 1993] argumentation
was given a great impuls by the work of Dung [Dung 1995] on the semantics of abstract argumentation frameworks. The approach of Dung
received a lot of following, both by those who applied the abstract semantics as one of the components in their argumentation formalism
(like [Prakken & Sartor 1997, Caminada & Amgoud 2005]), as well as by those who proposed alternative argument-based semantics given a
Dung-style argumentation framework (like [Baroni et al 2005, Caminada 2006, Coste-Marquis et al 2005]) and by those who have proposed to
extend Dung's notion of an argumentation framework with new functionality (like [Bench-Capon 2003, Amgoud et al 2004]. Using terminology
borrowed from the EU funded ASPIC project one can thus distinguish the following levels of research regarding the functionality of formal
argumentation:

 1. "Dung-base". Abstract argument semantics, using argumentation frameworks as defined in [Dung 1995]. The central research question
    here is which extensions of arguments one can distinguish given an argumentation framework. Apart from the well-known approaches of
    stable, preferred and grounded semantics, various scholars have stated alternatives such CF2 semantics [Baroni et al 2005], prudent
    semantics [Coste-Marquis et al 2005] and semi-stable semantics [Caminada 2006c]
 2. "Dung-instantiated". The issue of argument-based semantics leaves the internal structure of the arguments, as well as the nature of
    the defeat relation completely abstract. Various approaches have been proposed with respect to the structure of arguments, inclusing
    lists [Prakken & Sartor 1997], trees [ASPIC 2005] or sets of assumptions [Besnard & Hunter 2001]. As for the defeat relation, one can
    distinguish between assumption attacks (as for instance implemented in [Besnard & Hunter 2001]), Pollock-style undercutting of rules
    [Pollock 1992+1995], conclusion rebutting [Pollock 1992+1995] and Vreeswijkâ€™s notion of rule rebutting. Also advanced forms of
    arguments, like Caminada's Socratic-style arguments [Caminada 2004] and Prakken's notion of accrued arguments [Prakken 2005] have
    been shown to fit in Dung's standard notion of an argumentation framework. As for the defeat relation, this can be made to take into
    account various forms of dealing with priorities, inclusing weakest link, last link or the notion of defeasible priorities [Prakken &
    Sartor 1997]. In must be mentioned, however, that a proper instantiation of Dung's theory is not a trivial task; various
    argumentation formalisms have been criticized [Caminada & Amgoud 2005] for yielding unexpected and undesired outcomes as result of
    unsuitable instantiations.
 3. "Dung-extended". Some scholars have argued that particular forms of natural argument and informal argumentation concepts require a
    formalization that goes beyond Dung's standard notion of an argumentation framework. An example of this would be Bench-Capon's
    approach of value based argumentation [Bench-Capon 2003]. Another example is the approach of bipolar argumentation frameworks [Amgoud
    et al 2004]. Some approaches to deal with argument-strenth (like [Amgoud & Cayrol 2002]) also take place at the level of
    Dung-extended.

Organisation description:
AAS is proposed as a project involving three persons:

  â€¢ 1 postdoc (Martin Caminada) whose focus is the formal argumentation theory, and will also provide daily support to the PhD student
  â€¢ 1 PhD student (to be assigned) who will be responsible for the development of argumentation software tools and procedures
  â€¢ 1 staff member (Leon van der Torre) who will be supervising the project

Essentially, the project is organized around the interaction among the research assistant and the assistant, in which the research
assistant is developing the formal model, and the research assistant is developing the trust application and the implementation. Their
interaction is arranged via the trust application, which:

 1. generates the requirements for the formal model
 2. is used to evaluate the formal model

The project leader has several years of experience with managing projects in multi-agent systems and enterprise architecture with this
organization, and will see to it that it remains as effective as in previous projects.

Task T1.1: Advanced semantics of argumentation frameworks
This task has as main purpose some of the currently unsolved argumentation issues in the field of ``Dung-baseâ€™â€™ (see General Technical
Description). The key research question is, given a set of arguments and a defeat relation between these arguments, which extensions of
arguments can be constructed. Current approaches include well-known semantics such as stable, grounded, preferred and complete semantics
[Dung 1995], as well as the more recently developed CF2 semantics [Baroni et al 2005] and prudent semantics [Coste-Marquis et al 2005]. A
recent and promising approach is semi-stable semantics as propoese in [Caminada 2006]. The unique property of semi-stable extensions is
that they are equal to the stable extensions in situations where there is at least one stable extension, while at the same time the
existance of semi-stable extensions is guarenteed, even in situations where no stable extensions exist. Other desireble properties also
apply [Caminada 2006]. Semi-stable extensions thus provides an interesting and fault tolerant alternative for domains where traditionally
stable semantics has been applied.

One important issue that needs to be resolved, however, is the development of eficient proof procedures for semi-stable semantics,
especially for query-based applications. The approach as has been developed until now often requires the generation of all preferred
extensions [Caminada 2006] which is hardly feasible for practical purposes. The first objective of task T1.1 is therefore the development
of more efficient and practical proof procedures for semi-stable semantics.

One field where stable semantics is still widely in use is logic programming and answer set programming. An interesting research issue is
therefore how the concept of semi-stable semantics can be applied to obtain a level of fault-tolerance for logic programming and answer
set programming. The application of semi-stable semantics to logic programming and answer set programming is therefore the second
objective of task T1.1 and will be persued both in a declarative was, as well as in the form of executable proof procedures.

This task will provide part of the theoretical underpinning for AAS. However, as well as being sound, the theory must be computationally
tractable for the purpose of software development.

Task T1.1 will be mainly the responsibility of the research assistant (Martin Caminada), who already has experience both on semi-stable
semantics as well as on logic programming and answer set programming. Task T1.1 will start with the development of proof procedures for
semi-stable semantics as applied in abstract argumentation. This will result in a scientific publication, which is scheduled to be
submitted before month 9.

The results of this publication will then be used as a starting point for the application of semi-stable semantics in the field of logic
programming and answer set programming. This will again result in a scientific publication (for which Caminada will take responsibility)
which is scheduled to be submitted before month 18.

Task T1.2: Conceptual analysis of argument forms and methodology
Many forms of formal argument have been stated in the literature, including lists [Prakken & Sartor 1997], sets [Besnard & Hunter 2001]
and trees [Vreeswijk 1997, ASPIC 2005]. One particular point that has often been overlooked is which of these specific argument forms is
most applicable to which particular argumentation domain. As an illustration, some argument forms allow the principle of default
contraposition, which is particularly problematic in the field of legal reasoning. The first objective of task T2.1 is therefore to come
up with a comprehensive theory on which kinds of formal arguments are applicable to which domains (legal reasoning, trust management,
...). This will result in at least one scientific publication.

Another related point is that of general methodology for the construction of argumentation formalisms. In his thesis, Caminada treated
the issue of the construction of an argumentation formalism basically as a modeling problem; the idea is that formal argumentation models
a particular field of informal argumentation (legal, medical, epistemical, ...). The issue of methodology then becomes how one can be
sure one has adequalely modeled the argumentation and reasoning that goes on in a particular domain. In his PhD thesis, Caminada has
identified several ways of justifying particular design decisions in argumentation formalisms, of which the notion of mirror examples is
the most striking one [Caminada 2004]. The second objective of task T1.2 is therefore to work out a comprehensive theory on argumentation
design decisions. This will result in another scientific publication.

Task T1.2 will be the main responsibility of Caminada. Van der Torre will also cooperate on the topic of formal argumentation as a
modeling issue. As much work has already been done in Caminadaâ€™s PhD thesis, we do not expect there to be major problems that need to be
overcome. The existing work, however, does need to be elaborated on and be related to other work, which requires a reasonable amount of
work to be spent on it.

Task T2.1: Arguments about Trust This work will aim to validate proposals for formal argumentation models and implementation techniques
and algorithms on trust management. Using appropriate tools we will develop and test algorithms for these argumentation techniques (e.g.
theorem provers, dialogues managers, induction systems) with a particular focus on flexibility, scalability and interoperability. The
work package will also investigate optimization options and techniques for core algorithms.

Objectives:

 1. Requirements for the argumentation model
 2. Evaluation of the Argumentation model

For the use of the trust model and scenarios in trust management, we use results obtained in the TRIAS project. The task will be done by
the assistant, together with researchers involved in the TRIAS project (including the project leader).

Task T2.2: Trust Application
Objectives:

 1. Scenarios for trusting a source based on its argumentation
 2. Criteria to trust in a source based on its argumentation
 3. Prototype of reasoning about trust based on argumentation

This will be partly exploratory, given the lack of related research on how the used arguments may indicate the reliability of a source.
The task will therefore include the assistant, the research assistant, and active involvement of the project leader.

We start by discussing some scenarios in which the argumentation of a source may indicate the trustworthiness of a source, by rereading
some of the existing literature on trust research and explore how explicit argumentation may be used as an additional parameter.

From the scenarios we define criteria, like consistency or biases. Finally we test the trustworthiness using the formal model and a
prototype. The material obtained in this task will be the main result of the PhD thesis of the assistant (which he or she will write
during the third year of the project).

Task T3.1: Software development
The main objective of task T3.1 is the development of a software component that is capable of argumentation using at least grounded,
credulous preferred and semi-stable semantics.. Apart from that, the software should also implement various advanced argumentation
features that have yet been left unimplemented by existing argumentation software, such as defeasible priorities, Socratic-style
arguments and hierarchical argumentation.

The development of argumentation software is mainly the task of the still to be assigned research assistant. Standard software
engineering methodology will apply.

Task T3.2: Exploitation and dissemination
The main objective of task T3.2 is to manage project results exploitation and dissemination. We will seek to disseminate its research
results to the academic community (to be performed by participating in conferences, summer schools like the ESSLLI and giving lectures)
and to demonstrate the practical viability of argumentation technology as illustrated by the developed software of task T3.1.

Task T3.2 is the responsibility of everyone involved in the AAS project (van der Torre, Caminada and the yet to be assigned assistant).
We aim to perform at least one tutorial on formal argumentation and write at least one article on argumentation technology for an
industrial (non-scientific) audience.

Software dissemination. The AAS components will be documented and made available for research purposes in source code form.

References

[Amgoud & Cayrol 2002] L. Amgoud and C. Cayrol, "A reasoning model based on the production of acceptable arguments". Annals of
Mathematics and Artificial 34 (1-3):197-215 (2002)

[Amgoud et al 2004 ] L. Amgoud, C. Cayrol and M.-Ch. Lagasquie-Schiex, "On the bipolarity in argumentation frameworks". NMR 2004 1-9
(2004)

[ASPIC 2005] ASPIC consortium, "Deliverable D2.6 - Final review and report on formal argumentation system" (2005)

[Baroni et al 2005] P. Baroni, M. Giacomin and G. Guida. "Scc-recursiveness: a general schema for argumentation semantics". AIJ 168
(1-2):165-210 (2005)

[Baroni & Giacomin 2006] P. Baroni and M. Giacomin, "Evaluation and comparison criteria for extension-based argumentation semantics".
COMMA 2006

[Bench-Capon 2003] T.J.M. Bench-Capon, "Persuasion in Practical Argument Using Value Based Argumentation Frameworks". Journal of Logic
and Computation 13(3):429-448 (2003)

[Besnard & Hunter 2001] Ph. Besnard and A. Hunter, "A logic-based theory of deductive arguments". AIJ 128(1-2):203-235 (2001)

[Boella et al, 2005a] G. Boella, J. Hulstijn, and L. van der Torre, Argument games for interactive access control. Proceedings of WI05.
IEEE, 2005.

[Boella et al, 2005b] G. Boella, J. Hulstijn, and L. van der Torre, Argumentation for access control. Proceedings of AI*IA05. Springer,
2005.

[Boella et al, 2006] G. Boella, J. Hulstijn and L. van der Torre, A logic of abstract argumentation. Postproceedings of ArgMAS05,
Springer, LNCS, 2006.

[Caminada & Amgoud 2005] M.W.A. Caminada and L. Amgoud, "An Axiomatic Account of Formal Argumentation". AAAI 2005 608-613 (2005)

[Caminada 2004] M.W.A. Caminada, "For the Sake of the Argument; explorations into argument-based reasoning". PhD dissertation Vrije
Universiteit Amsterdam (2004)

[Caminada 2006a] M.W.A. Caminada, "Well-Founded semantics for Semi-Normal Extended Logic Programs". NMR 2006

[Caminada 2006c] M.W.A. Caminada, "Semi-stable semantics". COMMA 2006

[Coste-Marquis et al 2005] S. Coste-Marquis, C. Devred and P. Marquis, "Prudent semantics for argumentation frameworks". Proc. of the
17th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence (ICTAI 2005) 568-572 (2005)

[Dung 1995] P.M. Dung, "On the acceptability of arguments and its fundamental role in nonmonotonic reasoning, logic programming and
n-person games". AIJ 77:321-357 (1995)

[Fox & Das 2000] J. Fox and S. Das, "Safe and Sound. Artificial Intelligence in Hazardous Applications". AAAI Press/MIT Press, 2000.

[Kaci and van der Torre 2006a] S. Kaci, L. van der Torre and E. Weydert, Acyclic Argumentation: Attack = Conflict + Preference.
Proceedings of ECAI 2006.

[Kaci and van der Torre 2006b] S. Kaci and L. van der Torre, Preference reasoning for argumentation: non-monotonicity and algorithms.
Proceedings of the NMR'06, 2006.

[McCarthy 1986] J. McCarthy, "Applications of circumscription to formalizing common sense knowledge". AIJ 26(3):89-116 (1986)

[Modgil 2006] S. Modgil, "Value Based Argumentation in Hierarchical Argumentation Frameworks". COMMA 2006

[Mozina et al 2005] M. Mozina, J. Zabkar, T.J.M. Bench-Capon and I. Bratko, "Application of Argument Based Machine Learning to Law".
ICAIL 2005 248-249 (2005)

[Pollock 1992] J.L. Pollock, "How to reason defeasibly". AIJ 57:1-42 (1992)

[Pollock 1995] J.L. Pollock, "Cognitive Carpentry. A Blueprint for How to Build a Person". MIT Press, Cambridge, MA (1995)

[Prakken & Sartor 1997] H. Prakken and G. Sartor, "Argument-based extended logic programming with defeasible priorities". Journal of
Applied Non-Classical Logics 7:25-75 (1997)

[Prakken 2005a] H. Prakken, "A study of accrual of arguments, with applications to evidential reasoning". ICAIL 2005 85-94 (2005)

[Prakken 2005b] H. Prakken, "Coherence and flexibility in dialogue games for argumentation". Journal of Logic and Computation 15
1009-1040 (2005)

[Reiter 1980] R. Reiter, "A logic for default reasoning". AIJ 13:81-131 (1980)

[Simari & Loui 1992] G.R. Simari and R.P. Loui, "A mathematical treatment of defeasible reasoning and its implementation". AIJ 53:125-157
(1992)

[Vreeswijk 1993] G.A.W. Vreeswijk, "Studies in Defeasible Argumentation". PhD dissertation Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam (1993)

[Vreeswijk 1997] G.A.W. Vreeswijk, "Abstract argumentation systems". AIJ 90:225-279 (1997)

